I haven’t done this, but I read a post of someone using Anki this way, and it seemed interesting but also a little bit crazy.

 

They weren’t using Anki to memorize, the cards were one sided. They would take several novels/stories, and break them down into 20 to 40 line chunks. From there they would take 1 new card per book per day. The cards for each book would be in order. At any given time, they were “reading” 20 new books, plus seeing reviews for previous books. At 1 new card per day, a normal sized book would take about a year and a half to get through. They changed the intervals to 7d, 30d, then after that Anki’s normal 2.5x.

 

At first glance I thought this was insane, but after hearing their explanation, I think it’s an intriguing (but still crazy) idea. Their explanation had three main points.

    They still read books the normal way outside of Anki.
    Since Anki was already a part of their normal habit, this was an easy way to get through the backlog of books you want to read, but never find the time for.
    The jumping between 20 different stories, and jumping forward and backwards in the same story, helped them develop their creativity/imagination in a non linear way.

    permalinkembedsavereportreply

[–]OrganizationNo4173 1 point 1 day ago 

Did they read the books and create summaries? Or did they use a summary service and not read it?

​

Or am I misunderstanding?

    permalinkembedsaveparentreportreply

[–]keanwood 2 points 1 day ago 

They would take the entire text of the novel, and break it into groups of 20 to 40 lines. Each day, they would do 1 new card per book. So basically it's like reading a book at a pace of one paragraph per day.

 

The semi-crazy part is that they do this for multiple books simultaneously, so they jump from story to to story, and because of reviews, they jump forwards and backwards within each story.

    permalinkembedsaveparentreportreply

[–]OrganizationNo4173 1 point 1 day ago 

Oh, that IS crazy. I thought you meant a 40 line summary.

​

I don't know how to feel about this.
